---
layout: project
title: Baxter Shuffle
date: March 16, 2017
image: /public/images/baxter.png
---

Group Members: Li-Chun Lu, Daniel Lynch, Dorian Kusznir

## Overview
This project uses Baxter to perform a simplified version of the classic shell game. The original idea was that an object would be placed under one cup and Baxter would shuffle the three cups for some period of time. One of the audience could then guess which cup contains the object by placing their hand in front of the cup, and in response Baxter would grasp the cup and lift it to (maybe) reveal the object then place the cup back down on the table. We simplified that version of the shell game in two ways:

1. Instead of using cups and an object hidden inside one of the cups, this version uses three cubes, one of which has a marker on the underside;
2. instead of shuffling the blocks randomly, Baxter moves each block to a position chosen randomly from a set of specified positions. The Shuffle Algorithm and Further Improvements sections below explain this simplification in greater detail.

[Here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u8qGcpOJxrs&feature=youtu.be) is a link to a demonstration video we recorded.

### Equipment and Hardware Requirements:
1. Baxter Robot

2. ROS Indigo on Ubuntu 14.04

3. Three colored cubes

4. Marker

5. Table

6. Tape

### Preliminary Steps
To setup Baxter and workstation, please follow the [Baxter setup tutorial](http://sdk.rethinkrobotics.com/wiki/Baxter_Setup) from Rethink Robotics.

### Project Overview
1. Move the gripper to home position
2. Sweep the table to detect the cubes
3. Store the position of the three cubes
4. Move the gripper to the first cube
5. Pick up the cube
6. Move the gripper to a random position
7. Place the cube on the table
8. Store the new location of the cube
9. Repeat step 4~8 to the rest two cubes
10. Move the gripper to a random cube
11. Pick up the cube
12. Move the gripper back to one of the original position
13. Place the cube on the table
14. Repeat step 10~13 to the rest two cubes

### Further Improvements
The entire shuffling routine is currently not sufficiently robust. Improvements to the motion planning, computer vision, and shuffling algorithm would all increase robustness.

Implement the inverse kinematics and motion planning for the limb motion. We control the limb simply providing a position in space and hope the IK service will give us a soution. However, we found the solution is not guarantee to find even we use random noise and current limb joint pose as seeds. The entire limb motion could be better if we can calculate severl waypoints along the initial pose and the final pose to reduce IK service error.

Use a different method for detecting objects on the table. For example, we could have the end gripper and camera travel above the workspace, inspect the entire area and mark the location where it sees objects and mark these locations for future use. In this approach, we may reduce the coordinate conversion error from using camera pixel coordinates or the vector from camera to the center of object.

Generate random points within Baxter's workspace. We originally implemented this method, but due to our motion planning method, we frequently encountered inverse kinematics errors (unreachable end-effector poses). Having a better definition of Baxter's reachable workspace and/or a more robust motion-planning algorithm would reduce the frequency of these errors. While our current method works, it is not as interesting as randomly-generated positions. Implementing such an improvement would also require specifying a tolerance for the distance between blocks and checking these distances either using forward kinematics or computer vision to ensure two blocks' positions don't overlap.

### Conclusion
Although challenging, working with Baxter was an extremely valuable experience. Our project is a simple implementation of a task that can easily be scaled to a difficult problem combining task planning, motion planning, and computer vision.


